---
layout: post
title: 401k vs Roth 401k
date:   2016-12-20 21:12:00 -0400
categories: retirement
---
Retirement. For most twenty year olds it's a concept that's still far off their radar, but investing early on can lead to massive gains overtime because of compound interest.

### 401k's in a nutshell
401k's are a retirement savings plan that is sponsored by an employer. They are tax-deferred, which means you don't pay taxes on them before putting them into the account. These pension accounts have a yearly cap of $18,000 as of 2016. If you're over the age of 50 that limit goes up to $24,000.

### A Roth 401k
Roth 401k's are similar in that they are a retirement savings plan. However, they are not tax-deferred, meaning you pay taxes before putting money into the account. Since taxes are paid beforehand, Roth 401k's have a lower limit of $5,500 as of 2016. If you're a senior over 50 the limit increases to $6,500.

### Which one should I pick?
There are pros and cons to both accounts.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Pros</th>
      <th>Cons</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>401k</td>
      <td>
        <li>Tax-deferred</li>
        <li>Higher limit</li>
      </td>
      <td>You have to pay taxes on withdrawal</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Roth 401k</td>
      <td>All money is yours when withdrawn</td>
      <td>
        <li>Not tax-deferred</li>
        <li>Lower limit</li>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

A common factor in determining which account to purchase is age. If you're younger and believe your salary will go up, it's better to pay taxes ahead of time for a Roth 401k. This typically works best for people around 25 years old since they aren't at their peak earning years. Once you have a higher salary you're placed in a higher tax bracket, meaning there will be proportionally more taxes.

Ideally, you'd like to hit the contribution maximum for both accounts. You've probably noticed that both accounts offer some sort of tax benefit that supplements the other. Having a mix of accounts is key to properly [diversify your portfolio][diversify-portfolio]. Furthermore, if you hit the limits of both accounts also consider an [IRA and Roth IRA][iras].

[iras]: http://brunchbucks.com/investment/2016/11/16/diversifying-your-portfolio/
[diversify-portfolio]: http://brunchbucks.com/investment/2016/11/16/diversifying-your-portfolio/
